1) dlmalloc (the historical linux allocator, and may still be used in many distributions, e.g. ubuntu 222.04)
 See https://gee.cs.oswego.edu/dl/html/malloc.html

 Confusion by Doug Lea:

 quote:
    This approach leads to fixed bookkeeping overhead per chunk. Because both
    size information and bin links must be held in each available chunk, the
    smallest allocatable chunk is 16 bytes in systems with 32-bit pointers and
    24 bytes in systems with 64-bit pointers. These minimum sizes are larger
    than most people would like to see -- they can lead to significant wastage
    for example in applications allocating many tiny linked-list nodes. However,
    the 16 bytes minimum at least is characteristic of any system requiring
    8-byte alignment in which there is any malloc bookkeeping overhead.

 discussion: this analysis is wrong, since many modern allocators get 1 bit of
    overhead for eachs small allocation.

 discussion: also he doesn't do the boundary tagging properly: there should be
    only 8 bytes of overhead (since we don't need the boundary tag at the end of
    block that's in use, described in Wilson page 28 last paragraph of column 1)

 quote: As shown by Wilson et al, best-fit schemes (of various kinds and
    approximations) tend to produce the least fragmentation on real loads
    compared to other general approaches such as first-fit.

 discussion: Does Wilson really show that?  (There are problems with Wilson too)

 discussion: Since dlamlloc is doing best-fit, can we make it exhibit the O(n^2)
    behavior that best fit can be subject to?  This allocator can do best-fit on
    all multiple-of-8 sizes from 16 to 512 (does the current ubuntu allocator
    still do that?).  That's a factor of 32 from the smallest to the largest.
    So can we make it have a 32-fold blowup allocating objects of size 512 or
    smaller, using Robson's technique?

2) As of commit 5b92fc3bbf69 we have two pdf files.

 discussion of boom-ffworst-2to27.pdf
    this is the worst-known workload for first fit allocating 2^27 bytes per class.

    We start with blocks of size 32 (smaller blocks make libc too happy, since the minimum block size allocated by libc is more than 16: probably 24)
    We allocate 2^27 bytes of that size.
    Then we free every other block.
    Then allocate 2^27 bytes of blocks of size 64.
    Then we delete every other block (half of the 32-byte blocks and half of the 64-byte blocks0)
    Then 128 then 256 and so forth until we allocate one big block of size 2^27.

    This workload should see a logn blowup for first fit, best fit, and for bump allocator.

    What we see:

       * The bump allocator and hoard have almost exactly the same blowup.
         (hoard is a little smaller, maybe we can start with smallest block size
         of 16 for hoard?)

       * libc does better (is it using best fit, but there is some randomization
         or something?)  It also flattens out for large blocks because it gives
         the memory back to the operating system.  Hoard never seems to give
         memory back to the operating system.

       * bump-ummap (really bump-madvise-dont-need) does very well for large
         blocks.  When it frees a large block, it frees all the pages that are
         entirely enclosed within a block, so the blowup flattens out at just
         under 6.
       
  discussion of boom-ffworst-2to27-b17.pdf
     Here we allocate blocks of size 17, then 34, then 68, then 136 and so forth.

     Hoard really doesn't like that: the bloup jumps up to over 14.
     The bump allocator tops at at just under 12 as for the size-32 blocks.
     bump-unmap is happy.
     libc is quite happy (probably because the first round of allocations are so small)

3) Discusson of Wilson et all https://jyywiki.cn/OS/manuals/malloc-survey.pdf

   Page 6: It has been proven that for any possible allocation algorithm, there
    will always be the possibility that some application program will allocate and
    deallocate blocks in some fashion that defeats the allocator’s strategy, and
    forces it into severe fragmentation [Rob71, GGU72, Rob74, Rob77].

   This is misleading.  It's been proven that there is a logn overhead, but some
   allocators do much worse.  Furthermore, the logn blowup is easy to induce.
   We should accept that logn isn't "severe".

   Wilson on page 30 (top of col 2) mentions that section 3.6 talks about trees.

 Wilson: page 31: A problem with sequential first fit is that the larger blocks
    near the beginning of the list tend to be split first, and the remaining
    fragments result in having a lot of small blocks near the beginning of the
    list

    discussion: that's not actually a problem, they seem to grudingly admit that
    maybe it's not, we'll see in section 3.8)

 Wilson 3.6 is "segregated free lists", that's what dlalloc uses for it's best
    fit.  One problem dlalloc is that you cannot have enough lists, so the
    best-fit is only apporximate.  Wilson points out that you could have an
    exact set of segerated free lists with a sparse array.

 Wilson 3.8: they apparently didn't know how to do first-fit in log time.
 
